In this and VIVIR see how we can process bite or the interface that is files containing non-terrestrial
data like images that enable processing files is probably one of the most common activities we will
also see how we can do this in an efficient way.
And for that we will look at a picnic called buffering and in the process we will also look at a design
pattern called decorator pattern.
In fact decorator pattern is very heavily used within the I IO package at the end of the lesson.
We will also do a shot them all of what we learned.
It's just like building the lesson.
But by the end of it they will have a solid understanding of how we can process byte oriented files
efficiently.
We already know that we can use file input stream for reading data from files.
Similarly there is also a fine output stream for writing that or twice as we saw earlier.
These classes extend input stream an output stream process since read and write metrics in input and
output stream classes are abstract.
These classes provide an implementation for those matters.
We all need to look at how we can create a file input stream object.
And here is how we can create a file output stream.
The input parameter is simply the filename.
There are a couple of other overloaded constrictors but this one I think is the most commonly used.
Not that this constructor would create a new file if the file does not exist but a file does exist then
it could simply override the fine but with file input stream a new file is not created.
If it does not exist the constructor will simply throw the file off one exception and that makes sense
as there is no point creating an empty file and read nothing from it.
And here are some reasons for throwing a file not one exception plus one specific to file input stream
and we just discussed it.
Second one is specific to file output string.
An exception will be generated if the file for some reason cannot be created for writing.
Third and Fourth results apply to both file input as well as file output streams.
Third is when the file is actually the directory first is when the file exists.
But for some reason the file cannot be opened for reading or writing.
We saw that the BBC could read what methods were used for reading or writing single backs even when
we were using other variations of related matters where a byte array is used.
They were internally still relying on the basic redirect matters but the problem is reading or writing
single bytes in this way is way too expensive as each method invocation triggers or disk access.
As an analogy it is similar to shopping without a car that is each item is carried separately to the
checkout counter.
So what we need here is a shopping cart and in programming terms that would correspond to something
called buffering with buffering Eury the block of bytes into a memory buffer.
And then you read from that memory buffer which is much more faster than reading from the disk.
Similarly you would also write a block of bytes into the memory buffer and then flush all of the data
.
That is a once in a single operation.
So once again we are not hitting the disk for each byte that we want to write and group offering.
There are two specialized classes called buffer input stream and buffer output string and these classes
are subclasses off filter input stream unfiltered Puchi which in turn subclass input stream an output
stream process and a memory buffer that we are talking about is nothing but simple binary so both buffer
input stream and buffer output stream have this binary and the default buffer sizes are 8000 bytes.
But if needed we can set the buffer size to a different value by invoking one of the constructors.
But the thing is buffered input and buffer output stream classes do not work independently.
They work with other streams like file and put on file output streams that is buffered streams only
provide buffering as the core functionality and do not take the responsibility of dealing directly with
files on the disk.
So to provide buffering a buffer stream will be chain are connected to another string.
For example here a buffered input stream is chained to a file input stream which does the actual reading
from the file.
The blue Donard box you are can be visualized as the buffer on in terms of quote This is how it would
look.
The buffered input stream has a constructor which takes an input stream object as input.
And that's how the two classes have changed since the input is an input stream.
We can pass any input stream object but as we can specify an input stream object or any other instance
of the subclass of input string class.
Not that it's got to be a subclass of the input stream class as input stream class is abstract and we
cannot instantiate it.
No this kind of chaining is an example of a good object oriented design.
As in sort of maintaining a single huge class we have several smaller classes with each class doing
one thing and being able to extend the functionality of one class by changing it.
And in that class for example here we are extending the functionality of filing stream class by creating
that buffered input stream class.
Not this design is nothing but decorator design pattern.
He had buffered input stream is called as a decorator as it is create the file input stream object with
additional buffer functionality.
The decorator is also referred to as a proper class as it is dropping another object and a very important
design principle called the Open Closed principle serves as motivation for decorator's bargain and according
to this principle classes should be open for extension but glose for modification.
And that is what is happening here.
To add new functionality we are simply changing classes rather than modifying them does highlighting
the possibility of introducing any new bugs but the question is how are these classes open for extension
and for that to happen.
Boot decorator as well as the object that is being decorated must have a common supertype.
In our example both buffered input stream unfiled input stream input stream class as a common supertype
.
This way we can pass it on the Baho input stream object in place of a file input stream object and the
read method can be in word as if it was word on the file input stream object and the matter of the buffer
input stream object will give us the buffering benefit.
Internally it accesses the read method of the file input stream object and will buffer the bytes read
on.
Here is the precise logic.
So this is the read method in the buffer input stream class and it is basically an implementation of
the abstract read method in the input stream class.
So here is the buffer has some unread bytes than the first underbite is written.
Otherwise it means that either the buffer is empty or all its bytes have already been read in either
is willing to fill the buffer with fresh data.
And for that the read method of the underlying stream is invoked not the underlying stream is simply
a chain string that is fine input stream in Arties.
So by having a common supertype variable to extend the functionality of the file input stream class
by providing buffering as an additional capability.
Also note that the method declaration here has the keyword synchronized which is a multi-threading feature
that is used to add white data corruption.
No because the matter is synchronized GBM has to ensure that only one thread is able to access the matter
at any given point of time so some additional checks are performed when such kind of matters are in
work thus causing slowness in execution speed and due to this.
The second Bushnell of freedom can be booked their bikes are read in groups and here is a second version
.
Although this method is also synchronized since we are reading groups of bytes rather than single bytes
there'll be fewer muttering locations.
This method would read length number of bytes from the buffer into the input array starting at index
position offset undeclared instant number of bytes read or minus one.
If nostri Mr. minus one.
Let's also look at how the matter is implemented.
Most of the buffer has the requested amount of data then the data would be copied from the buffer into
the input binary.
But if the buffer does not have the entire data but has only partial data then the partial data is first
copied into the input and next the buffer is filled by fetching data from the underlying stream.
How does the read matter of the underlying stream is in work and the buffer itself is pozières input
to the matter handler once the buffer is full.
The remaining data is copied from the buffer into the input it know the Perkis is then the buffer does
not have any They died on.
And this gives If the buffer size is greater than the input array size then buffer is filled with fresh
data unlearnt number of bytes is copied into the input area.
But if that's not the case that is input array size is greater than or equal to the buffer size then
the data is copied directly from the underlying stream.
And today it.
So data is not copied into the buffer as it would add no value.
So he had that read method of the underlings I mean isn't good.
The input byte Daria's argument.
In fact in this case it doesn't make sense to use buffered input stream in the first place as in working
code could have directly access the read method of the underlying stream.
So it is just an extra word.
So there's no internal logic.
I would encourage you to look at the source code of this method just to get a feel of how this logic
is actually implemented.
Now here is the right.
Matter of the buffered output stream and the correct input data to the buffer.
But if buffer is full then data in the buffer is forced through us to the underlying string then the
buffer is filled with the input data.
And here is the second version of the right method.
It simply writes the input or the contents into the buffer.
If buffer does not have enough space then the buffer is face flushed and then the array contents are
copied into the buffer not flushing the right method of the underlying stream is used.
And we simply pass a buffer as the argument here count would be the index position of the last bite
.
That does not yet returned to the underlying stream but if input array size is greater than or equal
to the buffer size then buffer is fast flossed unlike in the case of read.
The recordings are written directly to the underlying stream.
Notice how the right method of the underlying stream is in would get different arguments for both these
actions.
So in this case using buffer output stream is of no value unright method in the final output stream
could have been invoked directly.
So if you want to read or write some large amount of data in a single discusses in which case you don't
need any buffering then you can directly access the read or white matter of the appropriate file stream
class by passing the byte address in a book.
But if you want to read data in smaller chunks which is generally the case then buffering is the way
to go.
So those are the right metrics.
Also like read amateur's due to synchronization usually in web this version of the right method if you
want better speed Novantrone method is involved on the decorator then it would internally invoke the
clothes method of the underlying decorator stream not have the decorator is a buffer to put stream then
invoke invoking close method would first flush all the bar contents and then close off the underlying
stream isn't war.
So for flushing internally Frush matter is used.
But you don't have to invoke this method explicitly as both Boatright as well as disclosed method.
Flush the buffer contents automatically.
Also just note that there is nothing like closing a decorator's dream as it is simply a class providing
some functionality like buffer.
That is it is not really dealing with some physical device like in the case of a file stream.
So decorator's simply invoke the close matter of the underlying string not the underlying stream is
also articulator then it would Indonesia with the Close method on the object that it is decorating situating
need not be restricted to just two classes.
It can be more than two also.
So that's about it.
Just to summarize we use buffering technique to perform fast streets or faster writes internally a byte
is used between the buffer data and the chaining process that we discuss is nothing but the decorator
bargain.
Now let's go ahead and do a very good bit more of what we just learned from for this demo.
I have created a new package called com doc sematic square that I will and I have also created a new
class within this package called I am all for this more we are going to test two things.
One is file processing without using buffering.
And for this we have this matter.
And the second one is file processing with buffering.
OK.
And that's the second matter tested later.
So the main thing is we are going to test both read and write operations and we're going to do a copy
operation which means that we are going to read file a bite from a file and we're going to write those
bytes to generate new file.
OK so that's the copy operation.
So let's just go ahead and look at that.
Matter.
So the input file name is what I learned or JPEG and output file name rather than hyphen or Rajib So
it's a -- quite honored set on fire.
And here is the matter.
Here we are creating an instance of this class called file and we are doing the act in order to get
the size of the fight.
But let's not worry about this file class.
We will look at it later.
So let's look at the read and write operations here.
Here is a try catch block.
So we are using the new try with resources syntax which has been introduced in Java 7.
OK.
And this does not require And finally block on here within the parenthesis we are creating an instance
of the file input stream and input that constructor is the filename of the input file.
And here we are creating an instance off file output stream and we are passing the output file in here
.
Onboard these explanations should be separated by a semicolon.
Here you are measuring the start time.
And here we are actually doing the in the while loop we are actually doing the both the read and write
operation.
So here in the parentheses we are reading the input file.
Ok so we are invoking the read method on the file input string.
So in this four input stream outhe's for output stream.
So that's the normal the standard conventions which we use for these streams.
So we are reading it under read motard we know it does a byte OK.
Every location read answer byte.
And if it reaches the end of the stream it returns a minus one.
So as long as it does not it has a doctorate and minus one it means that it is able to read some bytes
and the bytes read is stored in this variable called byte read which is of type.
OK so now within the within the while loop the byte that has been read is being written into the output
string.
Ok so we are invoking the right method and we are passing the byte that has been read.
And here you are getting the elapsed time and we are simply printing the elapsed time.
So let's just go ahead and run this method.
As you can see the file size is around 5 and B.
So how are some of the video here.
Because it doesn't take and I don't quantify seconds.
So now let's go ahead and test the second one which uses buffering here and here is the matter.
So within the try catch block this time we are using a buffered input stream and it has changed a bit
.
I need distrained with the file and put string on the file input stream has the input file name as a
parameter.
So the only addition here is we are changing with buffering put on buffered output streams can we are
still using the private resource syntax and we're going to use the second versions of the both the read
and write methods which read and write in groups of bytes.
OK so we are we have to pass a byte array to them.
OK I'm on the byte resizes photos and bytes and we know that the buffered input and output stream also
use a local buffer local array but the before sites for that area is around 8 toes and bytes.
So here we are using photos and bytes.
So we will read into this Arri into this binary and we will just pass that binary to the right method
in order to generate the output file.
So here we are creating the local byte array and within the Y loop we are first invoking the read mattered
and we are passing this byte array.
So photos and bytes will be read into this array.
And as long as as long as this method is not returning minus one we are going to execute the while matter
and within the sorted with a widebody.
And here we are invoking the right method on the output stream on the buffer output stream unbe are
passing the Bible.
So the contents of the Bible will be returned to the buffer output stream and we are though the offset
here is zero and the number of bytes that we want to write as this one which has been read the number
of bytes that has been read.
So that is returned by the read method.
So that's about it.
And let's just run this.
Now it's just taking 21 milliseconds you see.
So that's the difference here because we are using buffered inputs buffer streams which has taken only
21 milliseconds whereas for when we did not use the buffering technique it has taken around 25 seconds
.
OK.
And within the buffer or within the buffering technique we are using the second version of the read
and write matters because if we had we used only the read method it could how it would be a little bit
cooler because all the read metrics on the right methods are synchronized.
So we are reducing the number of matter in locations by reading and writing in groups.
So we are using the second version of the Read matter.
So that's about it.
This new class is available in the resources section and you can just take a look at it and play around
with it.
Thank you.
And happy courting